docs/FOUR_O_REQUEST.md, before:

# 4o Request Guide

This document describes how the bot communicates with model **4o**.

Requests are sent as HTTP `POST` to the URL stored in the environment variable
`FOUR_O_URL` (defaults to `https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions`). The
header `Authorization: Bearer <FOUR_O_TOKEN>` is added. Set these values via Fly
secrets.

Payload:
```json
{
  "model": "gpt-4o",
  "messages": [
    {"role": "system", "content": "<contents of PROMPTS.md>"},
    {"role": "user", "content": "Today is YYYY-MM-DD. <original event text>"}
  ]
}
```

When a post is forwarded from a channel or imported from a VK group, its title
is appended to the user message on a new line. This helps the model infer the
venue when it is omitted in the text.

If `docs/LOCATIONS.md` exists, its lines are appended to the system prompt as a
list of known venues. This helps the model normalise `location_name` to a
standard form.

The response must be JSON with the fields listed in `docs/PROMPTS.md`. When the
text describes multiple events, return an array of such objects.
The prefix "Today is YYYY-MM-DD." helps the model infer the correct year for
dates that omit it and lets the model ignore any events scheduled before today.
When a post is forwarded from a Telegram channel or imported from a VK group,
the channel or group title is added before the announcement text as
`Channel: <name>.` so the model can guess the venue.
Edit this file or `docs/PROMPTS.md` to fine‑tune the request details.

The command `/ask4o <text>` sends an arbitrary user message to the same
endpoint and returns the assistant reply. It is intended for quick diagnostics
and available only to the superadmin.

## Digest intro example

To compose the introductory phrase for the lecture digest the bot sends a
single-message chat completion describing the number of lectures, the horizon
(``недели``/``двух недель``) and up to three topic hints. The response is plain
text with 1–2 short sentences:

```
POST $FOUR_O_URL
{ "model": "gpt-4o", "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "..."}] }
```

Response:

```
{"choices": [{"message": {"content": "Подобрали для вас ..."}}]}
```

When a new event might duplicate an existing one (same date/time/city but
slightly different title or venue), the bot sends both versions to 4o asking if
they describe the same event. The model replies with JSON
`{"duplicate": true|false, "title": "", "short_description": ""}`. If
`duplicate` is true the returned title and description replace the stored event
fields.

Festival pages also rely on 4o. To craft a festival blurb the bot sends the
previous description (if any) together with the full text of up to five recent
announcements. The prompt instructs the model:
The model also returns `festival_full` alongside `festival` so the bot can store
the edition name separately.
"Стиль профессионального журналиста в сфере мероприятий и культуры. Не
используй типовые штампы, не выдумывай факты. Описание должно состоять из трёх
предложений, если сведений мало — из одного". Only information from the
provided texts may appear in the summary.
If the description contains a date range like "с 27 августа по 6 сентября 2025",
these dates define the festival period. When no range is present the period is
calculated from the events added to the festival.

## Logging

OpenAI usage resets daily at 00:00 UTC. The `four_o.usage` log records each
request with its token count and the remaining budget as defined by
`FOUR_O_DAILY_TOKEN_LIMIT`. Grafana dashboards can filter by the
`four_o.usage` key to visualise daily token spend.

Commit message:

Document festival alias merge workflow

docs/FOUR_O_REQUEST.md, after:

# 4o Request Guide

This document describes how the bot communicates with model **4o**.

Requests are sent as HTTP `POST` to the URL stored in the environment variable
`FOUR_O_URL` (defaults to `https://api.openai.com/v1/chat/completions`). The
header `Authorization: Bearer <FOUR_O_TOKEN>` is added. Set these values via Fly
secrets.

Payload:
```json
{
  "model": "gpt-4o",
  "messages": [
    {"role": "system", "content": "<contents of PROMPTS.md>"},
    {"role": "user", "content": "Today is YYYY-MM-DD. <original event text>"}
  ]
}
```

When a post is forwarded from a channel or imported from a VK group, its title
is appended to the user message on a new line. This helps the model infer the
venue when it is omitted in the text.

If `docs/LOCATIONS.md` exists, its lines are appended to the system prompt as a
list of known venues. This helps the model normalise `location_name` to a
standard form.

When the database stores festival metadata, the system prompt receives an extra
JSON payload with canonical `festival_names` and normalised
`festival_alias_pairs`. These pairs let the parser map alternative spellings to
the correct festival so new events attach to existing records instead of
creating duplicates.

The response must be JSON with the fields listed in `docs/PROMPTS.md`. When the
text describes multiple events, return an array of such objects.
The prefix "Today is YYYY-MM-DD." helps the model infer the correct year for
dates that omit it and lets the model ignore any events scheduled before today.
When a post is forwarded from a Telegram channel or imported from a VK group,
the channel or group title is added before the announcement text as
`Channel: <name>.` so the model can guess the venue.
Edit this file or `docs/PROMPTS.md` to fine‑tune the request details.

The command `/ask4o <text>` sends an arbitrary user message to the same
endpoint and returns the assistant reply. It is intended for quick diagnostics
and available only to the superadmin.

## Digest intro example

To compose the introductory phrase for the lecture digest the bot sends a
single-message chat completion describing the number of lectures, the horizon
(``недели``/``двух недель``) and up to three topic hints. The response is plain
text with 1–2 short sentences:

```
POST $FOUR_O_URL
{ "model": "gpt-4o", "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "..."}] }
```

Response:

```
{"choices": [{"message": {"content": "Подобрали для вас ..."}}]}
```

When a new event might duplicate an existing one (same date/time/city but
slightly different title or venue), the bot sends both versions to 4o asking if
they describe the same event. The model replies with JSON
`{"duplicate": true|false, "title": "", "short_description": ""}`. If
`duplicate` is true the returned title and description replace the stored event
fields.

Festival pages also rely on 4o. To craft a festival blurb the bot sends the
previous description (if any) together with the full text of up to five recent
announcements and a fact sheet summarising период, город, длительность, число
событий, ключевые сюжеты и площадки. The prompt asks the model to write like a
culture journalist, stick strictly to the supplied facts, and return один абзац
без списков, эмодзи и выдуманных подробностей. The final text is capped at 350
characters, so the LLM keeps only the essentials and avoids clichés. Only
information lifted from the provided materials may appear in the summary.
The model also returns `festival_full` alongside `festival` so the bot can store
the edition name separately.
If the description contains a date range like "с 27 августа по 6 сентября 2025",
these dates define the festival period. When no range is present the period is
calculated from the events added to the festival.

## Logging

OpenAI usage resets daily at 00:00 UTC. The `four_o.usage` log records each
request with its token count and the remaining budget as defined by
`FOUR_O_DAILY_TOKEN_LIMIT`. Grafana dashboards can filter by the
`four_o.usage` key to visualise daily token spend.
